Oct 28, 2013 |
==============

Fall has been rough this year on me health wise. I'm not sure if it's living two miles from a river or the fall leaves. But my asthma has been a nagging beast slowly trying to wear me down. I'm stubborn though, so it's not winning. So, I've been slightly lazy this month. Usually I would attempt to write my novel and do yoga daily as well as a plethora of other things in the tech realms. But just walking up the stairs to do these things leaves me exhausted. So, I've switched tactics this month. 

This month, I've been working on becoming mindful. Which means doing everything a bit differently. For example; I meditate now for ten minutes a day and I'm working my way up to longer times. I have been doing deep belly breathing to relieve stress and I have been working on mindful walking. Mindful walking is probably the most difficult for me though. I tend to rush from place to place regardless of my breath to get somewhere as quickly as possible. Now, I have to slow way down, concentrate on my breathing and remember that it's the journey, not the destination that matters. It's pretty difficult. 

On top of this I'm reading more. I've had time to read selections from Goethe to Rilke, as well as, "The Art of Power" among numerous other things. Just because we are ill doesn't mean we should quit. It just means we should try different things than what we were doing before. We have to adapt to the new circumstances temporarily and the reward is learning and doing things we probably wouldn't have done otherwise. So today, here's what I did. It's not much but it was a lot for the circumstances.

Meditated for ten minutes
Journaled
Went up the stairs twice
Went for a half block walk to gather sweet gum balls and pine cones for the wreath I am making
Wrote this letter
Finished "The Art of Power"
Made Horchata
Held Oreo for fifteen minutes and scratched her ears as she fell asleep (Yes, I have asthma and I have a dog. Don't judge. She's a rescue and she only bothers me if I'm giving her a bath.)
Attempted to set up Halloween decorations
Played cards

That's it. Not much at all, but everything was done mindfully and slowly. It all had a purpose. Now. I'm hoping to incorporate mindful breathing throughout my day with the help of an app called "Mindful Mynah". The goal is that every time the bell rings, I pause and take several deep breaths before moving on. So, I was wondering. What is your day like when you are under the weather? Do you push through it? Or do you accept it and gently try less burdensome things? 
